Document alarm_control_panel triggers, conditions & actions (#44979)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_actions/alarm_control_panel.alarm_arm_away.markdown

---
title: "Arm alarm away"
action: alarm_control_panel.alarm_arm_away
domain: alarm_control_panel
description: "Arm an alarm control panel in away mode. Optionally provide a code if your alarm panel requires one."
related_actions:
  - alarm_control_panel.alarm_disarm
  - alarm_control_panel.alarm_arm_home
---

The **Arm alarm away** action arms your alarm control panel in away mode. Heading out to work? Your alarm locks everything down automatically as you leave, protecting all zones while nobody is home.

This action works with any alarm control panel {% term entity %} in Home Assistant that supports away mode. If the alarm is already armed in away mode, calling the action does nothing.

{% include actions/ui_header.md %}

> To arm an alarm in away mode from an automation or a script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Arming an alarm in away mode from an automation or a script
```
I would use a task title here, with a gerund, as we do for other task titles.

Reviewer 2: Not needed because `ui_header.md` inserts a h2

Reviewer: ok, but the gerund, instead of the infinitive

Reviewer 2: @c0ffeeca7 As it is, it will render as:

```md
## Using this action from the user interface

If you prefer building automations and scripts visually, Home Assistant walks you through this action step by step.
You pick what to target, tweak a few options, and save.
No YAML knowledge required.

To arm an alarm in away mode from an automation or a script:
```

In the section body, I think we normally introduce procedures with "To...:", no?

Reviewer: > @c0ffeeca7 As it is, it will render as:
> 
> ```
> ## Using this action from the user interface
> 
> If you prefer building automations and scripts visually, Home Assistant walks you through this action step by step.
> You pick what to target, tweak a few options, and save.
> No YAML knowledge required.
> 
> To arm an alarm in away mode from an automation or a script:
> ```
> 
> In the section body, I think we normally introduce procedures with "To...:", no?

I should have checked the preview. Yes, I agree with you. In the body, we use the infinitive, To..... . In the procedure title, we use "To do X". In the procedure intro para, we usually use "To do X, follow these steps:"

> Arming an alarm in away mode from an automation or a script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To arm an alarm in away mode from an automation or a script, follow these steps:
```
Sorry, I should have checked the preview. I didn't realize this was not a title. Yes, I agree with you. We use the infinitive to introduce a procedure.
